# Overview

The WIFISESS data collection pilot has many moving pieces. It involves:

* **Hardware**: For the pilot, a participating library must have a Raspberry Pi and one of a (currently limited) number of USB wifi adapters.
* **API Key**: Participation requires an API key from [api.data.gov](https://api.data.gov/), and that key must be approved within the api.data.gov administrative interface.
* **Configuration**: The Raspberry Pi must be set up and configured in a particular way. A `bash` script is used to bootstrap an `ansible` playbook that downloads the required software, asks the librarian for three pieces of information (API key, FCFS Seq Id, and a tag to identify the Pi), and **locks down the device so it cannot be accessed again**. Several pieces of custom software were developed to support the configuration of the Pi.
* **Software**: On the Pi, we run `session-counter`, an application we developed to monitor wifi usage and maintain anonymity while reporting back to the data collection backend. It monitors, filters, and then reports data via HTTPS POST to ReVal, a data validator capable of handling a wide variety of inputs.
* **Server Stack**: Our server stack involves using the api.data.gov API manager. (This is actually an instance of [api-umbrella](https://apiumbrella.io/), an open source tool for managing APIs and keys and throttling requests.) We pass data from api.data.gov to [ReVal](https://github.com/18F/ReVAL), a validation library developed by 18F and in use with several federal agencies. If the data validates, we then pass it to [Directus](https://directus.io/), an open source headless CMS; this saved us developing an API for our Postgres instance, as it can automatically inspect a table and present an HTTPS POST API for CRUD operations on those tables. The entire stack is managed as a CloudFoundry buildpack running on [cloud.gov](https://cloud.gov).

Everything used in the pilot is free and open source software. This site documents each of these pieces: how to maintain, build, test, and deploy the components involved.